You may not realize it, but your Node apps are great on ARM processors.
If you're running Docker Desktop, you can already support ARM right now.
In fact, it wouldn't take much for you to just do that.
In this next couple of lectures, I want to show you some of the basics of ARM, and how Docker treats ARM,
and talk about some current events, and hopefully get you interested in this platform.
If you're someone who's already understanding of ARM, then this will help you understand how Docker is
the easiest way, I think, to develop and deal with ARM right now.
In case you're not familiar with ARM, it's a processor that is incompatible with Intel.
We all use servers today. All the machines you're probably using, unless you're focused on Internet
of things or embedded devices,
those are going to be all Intel-compatible chips.
We'll just call it x86. So, those x86 chips are what we're used to, and that's how our code is compiled
and run.
But ARM is an alternative processor that is not compatible with x86 that you might consider, especially
if you're thinking of things like Raspberry Pis, or embedded devices, small little things that are power
efficient.
That's really where ARM makes it's claim for being so focused.
In the last couple of years, we started to see more interest in the server market as well.
In 2018, Amazon was sort of the biggest cloud provider to come out and say, we have ARM servers.
They have something called the A1 instances that you can now get that are running this ARM-based infrastructure.
It's basically a different CPU on the motherboard. One of the hardest parts about
ARM is developing for it.
Typically, when you develop for an architecture, you need to be on that CPU when you're developing,
so you can test and edit the code, and run it right there on that machine.
That would mean in the past. that you would maybe have a Raspberry Pi sitting by, and you'd actually
physically plug into it, or maybe you'd SSH into a machine and develop on it there, and all those
ideas just don't sound great.
The nice thing is is Docker out-of-the-box supports this, and we'll talk about that in a minute.
Because the news that happened just today, as I'm recording this video, was that Docker announced a partnership
with ARM to ensure that the process of developing ARM- based solutions, and then getting those into whatever
the devices are, whether it's production in the cloud, or on embedded devices,
that Docker is going to help ARM smooth all that out using Docker containers. I think that's perfect because
it's a great example of how Docker and the container idea, and using images and storing those in repositories,
that we use common protocols like HTTPs to move those images around.
That all makes sense in an ARM world because when you think of a bunch of devices, whether those are
windmills in the middle of a forest. Or those are water sensors in the middle of a city. I mean, all the
things that you would think are embedded devices that might be running ARM, those are going to need app
updates just like cloud servers. Those are some of the hardest things, traditionally, to update and
I think Docker can really make that great.
In fact, last year at Dockercon, we got a great example of how NASA is using Docker on rockets
they're throwing out into space to hit meteors that might accidentally hit the Earth.
It's a pretty cool program. You should probably look that up on YouTube.
We don't know what the details of this partnership really mean, long term.
We can assume that it's going to make Docker easier and better for Docker on ARM, and let's just look
at what we can do now.
First thing up is that Docker Desktop, on Mac and Windows, works automatically with ARM out-of-the-box.
You can run ARM-based containers on those machines with just a few, little command changes or Dockerfile
changes. It turns out that Node is already great on ARM. Since the beginning, Node was focused
on ARM because the V8 engine that Node bases itself off of,
that's the Chrome Engine, in the Chrome browser, that JavaScript Engine was designed to work on ARM so
that they could run on mobile phones, for the Android phones.
So, this whole thing kind of is coming together as Node being a great way to support multi architecture
solutions.
I'm just going make the claim that right now, Docker is the easiest way to develop and deploy on ARM